In the name of God the All-Mighty,   Fellow members of the nation and the motherland,   Assalamualaikum Warrachmatullahi Wabarakatu, (Moslem  traditional greeting)   During these recent times, I have been following carefully the  development of our national situation, especially the aspirations of  the people for reforms in all sectors in the life of our nation and  state.   Based on my deep understanding of these aspirations and  prompted by the conviction that these reforms need to be implemented  in an orderly, peaceful and constitutional manner for the sake of  maintaining the unity and cohesion of the nation, and the continuity  of the national development, I declared a plan to form the committee  for reform and to change the composition of the Seventh Development  cabinet.   But, the reality to date has shown that the said committee for  reform cannot be materialized because there was no adequate response  to the plan to form that committee.   In the wish of implementing these reforms in the best manner  possible, I deem that faced with the impossibility of forming the  committee, changes in the composition of the Seventh Development  Cabinet are no longer necessary.   Considering the above development, I am of the opinion that it  would be very difficult for me to implement in a good manner, duties  in governing the state and in development.   Therefore, in line with article 8 of the 1945 Constitution and  after earnestly taking into consideration the views of the  leadership of People's Representatives Council (parliament) and the  leadership of the factions in it, I have decided to declare that I  have ceased to be the president of the Republic of Indonesia as of  the time I read this on this day, Thursday, May 21, 1998.   I have conveyed this statement, about me stepping down from the  post of president of the Republic of Indonesia, to you, leaders of  the People's Representatives Council who are also the leaders of the  People's Consultative Assembly, during the opportunity for a  meeting.   In line with article 8 of the 1945 constitution, the vice  president of the Republic of Indonesia, professor, doctor, engineer  B.J. Habibie is the one who will conclude the remainder of the  presidential term, holder of the mandate of the MPR, for 1998-2003.   For the assistance and support of the people while I led the  nation and state of Indonesia, I express my thanks and I seek  forgiveness if there was any mistakes and shortcomings.   May the Indonesian nation remain victorious with Pancasila and  the 1945 constitution.   As of this day too, the Seventh Development Cabinet is outgoing  and to the ministers I express my thanks.   Because conditions do not allow the taking of oath in front of  the People's Representative Council, to prevent a vacuum of  leadership in implementing the governing of the state, the vice  president should now take his oath before the Supreme Court of the  Republic of Indonesia