As was said by the Sultan just now, today, it is exactly 15 yearssince the day on which the city of Jogjakarta - or to be more exact,the Republic of Indonesia was attacked by the Dutch. Thirteen yearsago there began what we call the second military action taken by theDutch against the Republic of Indonesia.As all of you know, the military action which was begun here13 years ago was the second, which means that we also underwenta first military action. And that first military action started on 21stJuly, 1947. But if it is viewed as a whole, seen as one historical event,then in fact we did not suffer, merely two military actions from theDutch, the first on 21st July 1947, the second on 19th December 1948,No. In reality the Dutch, Dutch imperialism, on hundreds of occasionshas taken military action against the Indonesian People.You know that the Dutch began to come here to Indonesia in1596, when Admiral Cornelis De Houtman dropped anchor in BantenBay. Since that time, Friends, Dutch efforts to occupy the whole ofIndonesia were always accompanied by force of arms. That is whyI say that in fact the Dutch have taken military action against theIndonesian people hundreds of times. And as something for the peopleof Jogjakarta to be proud of - I say from this rostrum, that it wasfrom the region of Jogjakarta that the first opposition came, fierceopposition against Dutch Imperialism. This was at the time SultanAgung Hanjokrokusumo mobilised his army from the Jogjakartaregion to attack what then was called the city of Batavia. Therefore,Dr. Mohammad Yamin's proposal in the first meeting of the National[3]Defence Council was most appropriate : that the Command I shallgive ... God willing - should not be given anywhere else other thanin Jogjakarta, the centre of resistance against Dutch imperialism.Friends:Yes, on 17th August 1945 we proclaimed Indonesia's Independence,we set up the Republic o Indonesia, which now stands firmlyestablished, although several times struck by the Dutch, stands firmlyestablished and today with a resolute mind even wants to bring theregion of West Irian also into the territory under our authority.But, you know the Proclamation of 17th August 1945 was onlyone of the peaks of the Indonesian Nation's efforts to set up their ownstate. You know that decades earlier the Indonesian people had arisen,arisen to become a free Nation, although they had been colonised forhundreds of years, although they had been trampled upon for hundredsof years, although they had been starved for hundreds of years,although they had been humiliated for hundreds of years, althoughfor hundreds of years they had been made into a people of miseries,although efforts had been made to extinguish the National spiritentirely, yet - as I have said repeatedly - we arose again.I once said, even a worm will wriggle and turn when we treadon it, let alone men, let alone nations. The Indonesian Nation turned,set up organisations called the National Movement, which movementspread out, went deeper, spread out, went deeper, spread out, wentdeeper, eventually covering the whole of Indonesia. Spread out, wentdeeper, spread out, went deeper, ultimately on 17th August 1945exploding as the first Indonesian Revolution.And it was at that moment, Friends, that the Republic of Indonesiawas set up, that the Republic of Indonesia unfurled the Indonesian flag.And that Indonesian flag is not only known by the people ofIndonesia from Sabang to Merauke, but the Indonesian flag is nowrespected by the greater part of mankind. People see the Indonesianflag flying in our Embassy in Washington, people see the HonouredRed and White flying in London, people see the Honoured Red andWhite flying in Moscow, flying in Cairo, flying in Paris, flying inMexico-City, flying in Ottawa - in short, the Honoured Red and[4]White Flag is already known by all the people in this world, and asI have said, the greater part of mankind respects the Honoured Redand White Flag. Only the imperialists and the stooges of the imperialistsdo not respect the Red and White Flag. And as I say, Godwilling, the time will come when all the people in this world willrespect the Red and While Flag wherever it may fly.Friends:As you already know, we have existed as an independent statesince 17th August 1945. Now it is 1961.It has existed for 16 years already and we are indeed resolvedthat Indonesia's independence will last not only 16 years - our pledgesince 17th August, 1945 has been: Once free, for ever free, to theend of time.Today I have come to Jogjakarta. Virtually all diplomats, allrepresentatives of foreign countries, ambassadors, have accompaniedme to this town of Mataram. Almost all Ministers have come here.The Chiefs of Staff of our Armed Forces are all of them here, complete.The Chief of the State Police is also here. In short, all of them.The ambassadors want to hear what will be the command given byPresident Sukarno to the Indonesian people. And the Ministers, theChiefs of Staff, in short the entire Indonesian people, want to putinto practice what is commanded by President Sukarno so that WestIrian will speedily enter the territory under the authority of theRepublic.Our struggle is not yet finished. Indeed, right here in Jogjakarta,I once emphasised that the Indonesian revolution is not yet finishedand that therefore it is our duty to march on until our revolution hasbeen completed.Of course, Friends, the Dutch are always launching counteroffensives. As I said just now, the large-scale offensive in the formof the first military action on 21st July, 1947, was later followed bythe second miltary action' on 19th December, 1948.And finally, if we think it over carefully, we should express ourthanks to the Almighty that we won our independence not - as I havesaid - under the rays of the full moon, not protected by the perfumeof roses and jasmine. No, it has always been through struggle, struggleand yet again struggle. In fact, I once said that we who grew up in[5]the fire's heart of revolution, we who grew up in the cauldron ofTiandradimuka and of revolution, we have now become a strongnation. We are not a nation that received our independence as a gift,we are not a nation that pleaded for independence. No, we are anation that has waged a life and death struggle for independence,we are a nation tempered to the utmost in the struggle to build upindependence, and we have emerged from this tempering as a nationthat is mighty and strong.And this. is why, Friends, as I said just now, we give thanks tothe Almighty that fire rained upon us in this struggle of ours. 17thAugust 1945, was the beginning of the mightiness of this fire. Firerained as heavily as possible upon us, there were battles in all regionsthroughout Indonesia with the result that today the whole of Indonesiais full of the graves of our youth and our fighters. Fire rained uponus on 21st July 1947, and fire rained upon us as from 19th December1948.But, thanks to God Almighty, 19th December 1948, was thebeginning of total guerilla warfare. The guerilla warfare we wagedwas carried out not only by our youth in the Armed Forces, not onlyby our youth in the State Police. No, the entire people took part inthis total guerilla warfare and in the end, as you know, on 27thDecember 1949, Dutch imperialism bowed the knee and recognisedthe sovereignty of the Republic of Indonesia. This is the outcome ofour struggle.Last night I told the students : Don't think that our victorieswere the outcome of diplomatic manoeuvres. No. Don't think that thisRepublic of ours which was recognized on 27th December 1949, wasthe outcome of a skillful fencing with words by our leaders in TheHague at the Round Table Conference. No. The R.T.C., diplomacy,would not have succeeded if it had not been backed up by a mightyforce, if it had not been based upon a mighty force exerted by theIndonesian people themselves. It was as a result of the struggle of theIndonesian people in the all-out action to which I referred just now,that the Round Table Conference brought us recognition of sovereigntyby the Dutch and then by the international world.And at the time of the Round Table Conference, the Dutchpromised that they would recognize sovereignty over the whole ofIndonesia. And, friends, what is it that is called Indonesia? What iscalled Indanesia is the entire archipelago between Sabang and[6]Merauke. What is called Indonesia is what was formerly referred toas the Dutch East Indies. What is meant by Indonesia is what theDutch called Nederlands Indi, that entire archipelago betweenSabang and Merauke which is composed of thousands of islands.That is what is called Indonesia.And, at the Round Table Conference, the Dutch undertook torecognise sovereignty, independence, over the whole of that Indonesia,'Irrevocable" and "unconditional". But what happened, Friends ?Even though the promise was made at the Round Table Conferencethat the question of West Irian would be settled within a period ofone year, the one year passed and West Irian had still not beenreturned to us. This was a huge lie, a great deception which wasplayed by the Dutch.In fact. we should have understood beforehand that imperialismis always lying, always dishonest, always playing tricks. Where wasDiponegoro arrested years ago ? In Magelang, 46 kilometres from here.How was it that the Dutch could arrest Diponegoro ? They lied tohim first, they deceived him first : they said they were inviting himto hold talks, to negotiate. But it appeared it was not to hold talks,not to negotiate, but to be arrested. The greatest possible lies, tricks,dishonesty.And we too have experienced the same thing, once more at theend of 1950. On 27th December 1949, they recognised Indonesian;sovereignty. On 27th December, 1950, West Irian had not beenreturned to us.It was at that time, I proposed to the Government of the Republicof Indonesia to dissolve the Indonesia-Dutch Union. Since we hadagreed at the Round Table Conference to the establishment of theIndonesia-Dutch Union - an association between Indonesia and theNetherlands - the Republic that was recognised there was calledthe Republic of the United States of Indonesia, and the Netherlandsplaced in Djakarta not an ambassador but a High Commissioner ofthe Kingdom of the Netherlands. But we, who had for this reasonagreed to the establishment of: the Indonesia-Dutch Union, we weretricked, we were deceived, we were lied to. And that is why welater abrogated, dissolved this nonsense of the Indonesia-Dutch Union.And the struggle went on, the struggle to bring West Irian intothe territory under the authority of the Republic. We had notsucceeded in including it at the Round Table Conference, at talks[7]lasting for a whole year - from 27th December, 1949, till 27thDecember, 1950 - West Irian was still not included in the territoryunder our authority.And so from then on, we tried, we strove, we tried, we strove,to bring West Irian into the territory under the authority of theRepublic, by means of diplomacy, through talks, through nice-soundingspeeches at the United Nations. At the United Nations, wetried, we tried, until we pleaded, to bring West Irian into the territoryunder our authority.But what was the result? In the United Nations too, there wasno result at all. In fact, in the United Nations there were those whosaid: we agree with the Dutch controlling West Irian. The Dutchsaid: oh, in West Irian, we are not carrying out colonisation, weare there, oh yes, only to educate the people of West Irian; we arenot carrying out colonisation. And fancy, there are United Nationsmembers who confirm this. "Yes, the Dutch are not carrying outcolonisation. It is only Indonesia that says that the Dutch arecarrying out colonisation".Our struggle for West Irian, our verbal struggle, our fencingwith words, our pleading in the United Nations did not succeed.Indeed, for a long time I have said: What is this United Nations?The United Nations is simply an association of human beings. Yes,they are people, representatives all of them representing this state,that state, this state, that state, this state, that state. that state, thatstate, representatives. But only some of those United Nations members,meaning only some of those representatives, are real fighters, realrepresentatives of the common people of their states. They are justdiplomats, who have suddenly been struck by good luck, who havehad a sudden stroke of fortune, become the representatives of theircountry in the United Nations. When a session is on, they dressthemselves up, doll themselves up in smart ties, and say: Yes, I amthe representative of my people. They make fine-sounding speeches,and yet for the greater part, these speeches do not conform with thesentiments of the people they represent.Friends:As I said just now, our struggle in the United Nations was notsuccessful. And that is why, at a certain point of time we said: Weshall not talk any more in the UN. For years, we have tried in the[8]UN, tried in the UN, tried in the UN, tried in the UN, tried in theUN, without success. One day, I said to the Government of theRepublic of Indonesia: Do not discuss the West Irian question inthe UN any more, but practise a new policy vis-a-vis Dutch imperialism.Let us have a confrontation of strength vis-a-vis Dutchimperialism. Have a trial of strength and not only a match of tongues.I said, confrontation in all fields. "What do you say to that?" I said:"Here am I - here is Indonesia. Where are you?" Confrontation.Confrontation of what? They confront us economically, we confrontthem economically. Confront us politically, we confront them politically.They confront us militarily, we confront them militarily too.Yes, and that is why, ever since that time, we have been building up,strengthening our Armed Forces.And today, I am proud. There stand at attention before me,for all o you to see, new officers just graduated from the MilitaryAcademy in Magelang. Look at how smart they are standing there.They bear a great responsibility, to guard our independence, to guardour state, to defend our independence, and also, to bring West Irianinto the territory under the authority of the Republic.You young men, graduates of the National Military Academy,standing now before me! I hereby officially invest you as officersof our Armed Forces. You must know, young officers, that yourduties from this moment on are heavier than ever before. You arenow leaders in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia. Andtoday, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia have receivedmy order to get themselves ready so that at any moment I give theorder they enter West Irian to liberate it.And so you, too, young graduates of the National MilitaryAcademy, be at the ready, because, as I said just now, I have alreadygiven the order to the entire Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia,the Army, and the Air Force, and also the Navy, to get themselvesready so that at any moment I give you the command, youliberate West Irian from the strangle-hold of Dutch imperialism.As I said just now, I hereby invest you all as officers in theArmy of the Republic of Indonesia.Friends, we are carrying out political confrontation in all sectors,I said. And as a result of this political confrontation, the Dutchhave begun to change their attitude. But this change has not beenin the direction of meeting our demands; they have taken an attitude[9]even crazier than before. As you know, Luns made a move, made amove in the United Nations.As I said just now, it is even crazier. Even more chaotic, evengreater trickery against the Republic and the international worldthan before.At first, he made a move that sounded most pleasing to theears, very attractive indeed. That is, he said: Nowadays, the Dutchdon't want to be bothered any more with West Irian, and so WestIrian is going to be internationalised.	At first, he said that he didn'twant to be bothered any more, or that the Dutch didn't want to bebothered any more with West Irian, and so West Irian would beinternationalised. And he said that he would make the move ofdecolonisation of West Irian. Decolonisation means putting an endto, putting a stop to the colonisation of West Irian.Later. on, he said he would give the people of West Irian theright of self-determination.This all sounds extremely attractive. Internationalisation, decoIonisation, self-determination.But we, the Indonesian nation cannot be deceived, we, theIndonesian nation cannot be chained up, we cannot be caught in atrap.Internationalisation is but a move, is but what the French calla "tour de main", a mere try, an attempt to shift the attention ofthe world from the Netherlands to the whole international world. Ifanyone is to be responsible, then it is not the Dutch but the wholeinternational world.And as for that decolonisation! Now, they are talking aboutdecolonisation, but before they said that they were not colonising.And, according to some countries, it is even true that the Dutch arenot colonising. But now, in fact, they admit that they have beencolonising because now they talk about decolonisation. Decolonisationmeans putting an end to colonisation.And self-determination. We know that term. In the time of VanMook, we knew all this talk about "self-determination": But what did[10]it mean? Setting up member states. We know the self-determinationpolicy of Van Mook. But as a result of Van Mook's policy, thePasundan state came into existence, the state of East Java, the Stateof East Sumatra, the state of East Indonesia, and others. We weresplit up, torn asunder by imperialism, by this so-called "self-determination".And that is why, Friends, when I first heard in Tokyo that theDutch were going to pursue a policy of self-determination, I turned itdown firmly. And I said that we are not prepared to accept selfdetermination for West Irian from the Dutch.Friends, when Foreign Minister Subandrio met me in Rome onhis way to the United Nations to deal with Luns, I reminded him ofmy previous order, namely, not to take up the West Irian question inthe UN, but to pursue a policy of confrontation. But what could wedo? Luns took the West Irian question to the UN, and we weretherefore compelled to deal with it. And so, in view of this, we tooka decision. Subandrio went to New York to deal with Luns. I was illat the time in Rome. Dr. Subandrio came to Rome to ask for myinstructions.And I told him: Your duty in New York is just one. One, nottwo, not three, but one, and that is, to defeat Luns' proposal. Defeatthe proposals of the Dutch so that the Luns proposal can not beaccepted by the UN. My instruction to Dr. Subandrio was positiveand clear, and he carried out my instruction in the best possible way.This is the proper place for me to compliment Dr. Subandrio, ForeignMinister Subandrio, for having striven so well to defeat the Lunsproposal.Friends, after the Luns proposal had been defeated - and youknow all about his defeat - these Dutch did not become wiser. Theydid not then say: Yes, I understand, so West Irian has to be returnedto the Republic of Indonesia. No. They became madder than ever.What are they doing? They are proclaiming a puppet state called"the state of Papua". They are flying a Papua flag there, introducingthere a so-called "national anthem", a "Papua national anthem". Thisis another great wickedness. They were defeated in the UN, and nowthey go on with their trickery against the Indonesian nation. Establishinga puppet "state of Papua", flying a "Papua flag".[11]We are one nation, Pa'Dimara said last night. We know onlyone state in the territory of Indonesia and that is the State of theRepublic of Indonesia. We know only one flag in this territory of theRepublic, the Honoured Red and White Flag. We know only onenational anthem in this territory of the Republic, the "Indonesia Raya".And now, Friends, I ask you, I ask the international world, andI ask you ambassadors who are present here: "At this present moment,the Dutch are setting up a puppet state in West Irian, partitioning itfrom the Republic of Indonesia. A puppet state of Papua. In West Irianthey are carrying out a policy of partition with the act of establishing a"state of Papua", flying the "Papua flag", introducing a so-called"Papua national anthem". And what should we do? What should I do?What should the Republic of Indonesia do? What is to be done?Oh, yes, in the UN we can execute diplomacy, in the UN we canfence with words, we can use this argument and that argument inthe UN, this reason and that reason. In the UN, we can table thismotion and that motion, this resolution and that resolution.In the UN it is already clear there are no results. But now atpresent in West Irian, the Dutch set up a "state of Papua", theyfly the "flag of that state of Papua", they create a "Papua anthem".What must we here do? There is nothing else to do, we heremust act. Act. And that is why I now give a command to the entireIndonesian people. And what is my command? Listen!My Command positively and clearly is: Frustrate, come now, allyou people of Indonesia, defeat the setting up of that "state of Papua"!What is my further Command? Come now, all you people ofIndonesia, unfurl the Honoured Red White Flag in West Irian!I give this command positively and clearly. Defeat this "stateof Papua"! Unfurl the Red and White Flag in West Irian! Defeatit! Unfurl our flag! Be prepared, general mobilisation is coming!General mobilisation which will involve the whole of the people ofIndonesia in order to liberate West Irian completely from the strangleholdof Dutch imperialism.Friends, this is my Command. Execute this Command of mine!And here, I would like to express heartfelt thanks to all therepresentatives of the states which have helped us. I thank the repre-[12]sentatives of states in the UN who have helped us, both from Asia,from Africa and from the Socialist states, Yes from the Socialiststates, too. I thank them very much for their help in our struggle tobring West Irian into the territory under the authority of the Republic.Friends, some people accuse us: Yes, the Republic of Indonesiaturns too sweet a face to the Socialist states, oh, the Republic ofIndonesia is far too friendly with the Socialist states.I ask: and is this not fitting? The Socialist states have helpedus, the Socialist states endorse our claim to West Irian. I said thisbefore the women at the Gerwani Congress.Let's imagine that over there are the Socialist states. And overthere are the imperialist states. Yes, indeed, the Republic of Indonesiastand, in the middle, indeed the Republic of Indonesia pursues anindependent and active policy. Yes, Indonesia pursues a policy whichthose over there call a neutral policy. That, right, But look, isIndonesia wrong to be nice to the people over there, yes, to theSocialist states? To be thankful to the Socialist side? They, theSocialist states, confirm us in uniting the state of the Republic ofIndonesia. They vindicate this. The gentlemen over there, the imperialists,they do not vindicate this. These people (the socialist nations - Ed.)help us to establish a unitary state of the Republic of Indonesia.Those over there, the imperialists, in fact they trip us up inestablishing a strong unitary state of the Republic of Indonesia, they carryout subversive actions to destroy the Republic of Indonesia. Thesepeople endorse us in claiming West Irian so that West Irian comeswithin the territory under the authority of the Republic. Those peopledo not endorse us in demanding that West Irian comes within theterritory under the authority of the Republic.These people help us to bring West Irian into the territory underthe authority of the Republic. Those over there oppose us in bringingWest Irian into the territory under the authority of the Republic.Are we wrong, Friends, if we say to these people: Yes, thankyou friends from the Socialist states. Thank you, and we turn afriendly face towards them. That's how it is, Friends. Come, let us[13]march onwards. As I have said, repeatedly, in fact we do not standalone.Come on, defeat the "state of Papua"! Come on, unfurl theHonoured Red and White Flag in West Irian! Come on, every oneof you, people of Indonesia! We do not stand alone! Look, it isnot only 92 million people who want to do this but, as I have saidrepeatedly, other states, other peoples, in Asia, Africa, in the Socialiststates, all of them are helping us. We do not stand alone. More than2,000 million people are on our side. And so, let us march onward!And, friends, in fact, it is not just me who is speaking. No!Some people from the imperialist side say: Oh, that West Irian, that'sonly Sukarno. Its only Sukarno who makes all that fuss. If there wereno Sukarno, the West Irian fire would have gone out already. And,when I was ill in Vienna, some people said; Oh, let's hope Sukarnodies. They prayed that I would die soon or were already speculating,oh now Sukarno is going to die. Briefly, oh there won't be any moreWest Irian actions, And we imperialists will be able to enjoy ourselvesagain.I ask you, the Indonesian people, is it true that it is me, Sukarno,who urges you on to bring West Irian into the territoy [sic] under theauthority of the Republic? No! No! No! I am but the mouthpieceof the people of Indonesia. I see young officers here before me. I seekhaki uniforms over there. Behind me sit Ministers, leaders of politicalparties, religious leaders, representatives of the youth; representativesof the women.In front of me are the common people, the common people ofall groups. Workers, peasants, women, men, youth, all groups of thepeople of Indonesia confirm what I am saying.I am not just giving expression to my own desire alone; everyword I utter has the full support of the entire Indonesian people.And when I give the Command, in fact it is not Sukarno's Commandto the Indonesian people, in fact it is not the Command of the Presidentof the Republic of Indonesia to the Indonesian people, in fact it isnot the Command of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forcesof the Republic of Indonesia. it is not the Command to the Indonesianpeople of the Commander in chief for the Liberation of West Irian.[14]No! It is in fact the Command of the Indonesian people to theIndonesian people themselves. Is it not correct when I say that this isyour own desire, my Friends, the people of Indonesia?I am merely continuing in the spirit in the hearts of the people ofIndonesia. The spirit in the hearts of the Indonesian nation that lovesindependence. The spirit in the hearts of the Indonesian nation whoalways fight for independence. Together with you all, I, am merelycontinuing in the spirit of Sultan Agung Hanjokrokusumo, who triedto bring about the downfall of Jan Pieterszoon Coen's power in the.territory of Indonesia's native land. I am merely continuing in thespirit of Imam Bondjol. I am merely continuing in the spirit ofTeuku Imam Tjik Ditiro. I am only continuing in the spirit of DjokoUntung Suropati. I am merely continuing in the spirit of PangeranDiponegoro. I am only continuing in the spirit of Sultan Hasannudin.I am merely continuing in the spirit of Ktut Djelantik. I am onlycontinuing in the spirit of our fighters in our Nationalist Movement.I am only continuing in the spirit of Monginsidi who was killed bymachine-gun fire by the Dutch. I am continuing in the spirit of ourfighters who now lie in the Semaki Hero's Cemetery. I am continuingin the spirit of all the fighters of the Republic of Indonesia who nowadorn the Hero's Cemeteries all over Indonesia. I am only continuingin the spirit of the people of Indonesia who have loved independencefrom times of old.Yes, we love peace, but we love independence even more. Andthat is why, all you people of Indonesia, let us, as I said just now,defeat the attempts of the Dutch to set up a "state of Papua", letus unfurl the Honoured Red and White Flag in West Irian. Prepareyourselves in a short time for the command to carry out the generalmobilisation of the people of Indonesia in order to liberate WestIrian completely from the strangle-hold of the Dutch imperialists.I ask the Secretary of the National Defence Council to bringthe text of my Command here: I shall sign this Command in frontof you all, may it be implemented, executed by the entire Indonesianpeople.The Secretary of the National Defence Council will read outthe text of my Command.[15]We, the President, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forcesof the Republic of Indonesia, within the context of the policy ofconfrontation with the Dutch in order to liberate West Irian, haveinstructed the Armed Forces to be ready at all times for the momentwe will fix to perform the duty of liberating West Irian. Indonesia'snative land, from the chains of Dutch colonialism.And now, at this moment, because the Dutch are still intent uponcontinuing their colonialism in our native land, West Irian, bypartitioning the people and native land of Indonesia, we order thepeople of Indonesia, including those in the region of West Irian, toexecute the following tri-command:1. Defeat the formation of the puppet state of Papua of Dutch colonial make.2. Unfurl the Honoured Red and White Flag in West Irian, Indonesian native land.3. Be ready for general mobilisation to defend the independence and unity of Country and Nation.May God Almighty bless Indonesia's struggle for independence